README.md, before:

<img align="right" width="25%" src="logo.png">

# wgpu-rs
[![Build Status](https://github.com/gfx-rs/wgpu-rs/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/gfx-rs/wgpu-rs/actions)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/wgpu.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/wgpu)
[![Docs.rs](https://docs.rs/wgpu/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/wgpu)

[![Matrix](https://img.shields.io/badge/Dev_Matrix-%23wgpu%3Amatrix.org-blueviolet.svg)](https://matrix.to/#/#wgpu:matrix.org) 
[![Matrix](https://img.shields.io/badge/User_Matrix-%23wgpu--users%3Amatrix.org-blueviolet.svg)](https://matrix.to/#/#wgpu-users:matrix.org)

wgpu-rs is an idiomatic Rust wrapper over [wgpu-core](https://github.com/gfx-rs/wgpu). It's designed to be suitable for general purpose graphics and computation needs of Rust community.

wgpu-rs can target both the natively supported backends and WASM directly.

See our [gallery](https://wgpu.rs/#showcase) and the [wiki page](https://github.com/gfx-rs/wgpu-rs/wiki/Applications-and-Libraries) for the list of libraries and applications using `wgpu-rs`.

## Usage

### How to Run Examples

All examples are located under the [examples](examples) directory.

These examples use the default syntax for running examples, as found in the [Cargo](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html#examples) documentation. For example, to run the `cube` example:

```bash
cargo run --example cube
```

The `hello*` examples show bare-bones setup without any helper code. For `hello-compute`, pass 4 numbers separated by spaces as arguments:

```bash
cargo run --example hello-compute 1 2 3 4
```

#### Run Examples on the Web (`wasm32-unknown-unknown`)

Running on the web is still work-in-progress. You may need to enable experimental flags on your browser. Check browser implementation status on [webgpu.io](https://webgpu.io). Notably, `wgpu-rs` is often ahead in catching up with upstream WebGPU API changes. We keep the `gecko` branch pointing to the code that should work on latest Firefox.

To run examples on the `wasm32-unknown-unknown` target, first build the example as usual, then run `wasm-bindgen`:

```bash
# Checkout `gecko` branch that matches the state of Firefox
git checkout upstream/gecko
# Install or update wasm-bindgen-cli
cargo install -f wasm-bindgen-cli --version 0.2.68
# Build with the wasm target
RUSTFLAGS=--cfg=web_sys_unstable_apis cargo build --target wasm32-unknown-unknown --example hello-triangle
# Generate bindings in a `target/generated` directory
wasm-bindgen --out-dir target/generated --web target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/debug/examples/hello-triangle.wasm
```

Create an `index.html` file into `target/generated` directory and add the following code:

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
  </head>
  <body>
    <script type="module">
      import init from "./hello-triangle.js";
      init();
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

Now run a web server locally inside the `target/generated` directory to see the `hello-triangle` in the browser.
e.g. `python -m http.server`

### How to compile the shaders in the examples

Currently, shaders in the examples are written in GLSL 4.50 and compiled to SPIR-V manually.
In the future [WGSL](https://gpuweb.github.io/gpuweb/wgsl.html) will be the shader language for WebGPU, but support is not implemented yet.

For now, the shaders can be compiled to SPIR-V by running `make`, which requires you to have `glslang`s `glslangValidator` binary.

## Logging

`wgpu-core` uses `tracing` for logging and `wgpu-rs` uses `log` for logging. 

### Simple Setup

If you just want log messages to show up and to use the chrome tracing infrastructure, 
take a dependency on the `wgpu-subscriber` crate then call `initialize_default_subscriber`. It will
set up logging to stdout/stderr based on the `RUST_LOG` environment variable.

### Manual Conversion

`tracing` also has tools available to convert all `tracing` events into `log` events and vise versa.

#### `log` events -> `tracing` events

The `tracing_log` crate has a `log` logger to translate all events into `tracing` events. Call:

```rust
tracing_log::LogTracer::init().unwrap()
``` 

#### `tracing` events -> `log` events

The `tracing` crate has a `log` feature which will automatically use `log` if no subscriber is added:

```toml
tracing = { version = "0.1", features = ["log"] }
```

If you want events to be handled both by `tracing` and `log`, enable the `log-always` feature of `tracing`:

```toml
tracing = { version = "0.1", features = ["log-always"] }
```

## Development

If you need to test local fixes to gfx-rs or other dependencies, the simplest way is to add a Cargo patch. For example, when working on DX12 backend on Windows, you can check out the "hal-0.2" branch of gfx-rs repo and add this to the end of "Cargo.toml":

```toml
[patch.crates-io]
gfx-backend-dx12 = { path = "../gfx/src/backend/dx12" }
gfx-hal = { path = "../gfx/src/hal" }
```

If a version needs to be changed, you need to do `cargo update -p gfx-backend-dx12`.

Commit message:

Create list of known driver issues

README.md, after:

<img align="right" width="25%" src="logo.png">

# wgpu-rs

[![Build Status](https://github.com/gfx-rs/wgpu-rs/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/gfx-rs/wgpu-rs/actions)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/wgpu.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/wgpu)
[![Docs.rs](https://docs.rs/wgpu/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/wgpu)

[![Matrix](https://img.shields.io/badge/Dev_Matrix-%23wgpu%3Amatrix.org-blueviolet.svg)](https://matrix.to/#/#wgpu:matrix.org)
[![Matrix](https://img.shields.io/badge/User_Matrix-%23wgpu--users%3Amatrix.org-blueviolet.svg)](https://matrix.to/#/#wgpu-users:matrix.org)

wgpu-rs is an idiomatic Rust wrapper over [wgpu-core](https://github.com/gfx-rs/wgpu). It's designed to be suitable for general purpose graphics and computation needs of Rust community.

wgpu-rs can target both the natively supported backends and WASM directly.

See our [gallery](https://wgpu.rs/#showcase) and the [wiki page](https://github.com/gfx-rs/wgpu-rs/wiki/Applications-and-Libraries) for the list of libraries and applications using `wgpu-rs`.

## Usage

### How to Run Examples

All examples are located under the [examples](examples) directory.

These examples use the default syntax for running examples, as found in the [Cargo](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html#examples) documentation. For example, to run the `cube` example:

```bash
cargo run --example cube
```

The `hello*` examples show bare-bones setup without any helper code. For `hello-compute`, pass 4 numbers separated by spaces as arguments:

```bash
cargo run --example hello-compute 1 2 3 4
```

#### Run Examples on the Web (`wasm32-unknown-unknown`)

Running on the web is still work-in-progress. You may need to enable experimental flags on your browser. Check browser implementation status on [webgpu.io](https://webgpu.io). Notably, `wgpu-rs` is often ahead in catching up with upstream WebGPU API changes. We keep the `gecko` branch pointing to the code that should work on latest Firefox.

To run examples on the `wasm32-unknown-unknown` target, first build the example as usual, then run `wasm-bindgen`:

```bash
# Checkout `gecko` branch that matches the state of Firefox
git checkout upstream/gecko
# Install or update wasm-bindgen-cli
cargo install -f wasm-bindgen-cli --version 0.2.68
# Build with the wasm target
RUSTFLAGS=--cfg=web_sys_unstable_apis cargo build --target wasm32-unknown-unknown --example hello-triangle
# Generate bindings in a `target/generated` directory
wasm-bindgen --out-dir target/generated --web target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/debug/examples/hello-triangle.wasm
```

Create an `index.html` file into `target/generated` directory and add the following code:

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <script type="module">
      import init from "./hello-triangle.js";
      init();
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

Now run a web server locally inside the `target/generated` directory to see the `hello-triangle` in the browser.
e.g. `python -m http.server`

### How to compile the shaders in the examples

Currently, shaders in the examples are written in GLSL 4.50 and compiled to SPIR-V manually.
In the future [WGSL](https://gpuweb.github.io/gpuweb/wgsl.html) will be the shader language for WebGPU, but support is not implemented yet.

For now, the shaders can be compiled to SPIR-V by running `make`, which requires you to have `glslang`s `glslangValidator` binary.

## Logging

`wgpu-core` uses `tracing` for logging and `wgpu-rs` uses `log` for logging.

### Simple Setup

If you just want log messages to show up and to use the chrome tracing infrastructure,
take a dependency on the `wgpu-subscriber` crate then call `initialize_default_subscriber`. It will
set up logging to stdout/stderr based on the `RUST_LOG` environment variable.

### Manual Conversion

`tracing` also has tools available to convert all `tracing` events into `log` events and vise versa.

#### `log` events -> `tracing` events

The `tracing_log` crate has a `log` logger to translate all events into `tracing` events. Call:

```rust
tracing_log::LogTracer::init().unwrap()
```

#### `tracing` events -> `log` events

The `tracing` crate has a `log` feature which will automatically use `log` if no subscriber is added:

```toml
tracing = { version = "0.1", features = ["log"] }
```

If you want events to be handled both by `tracing` and `log`, enable the `log-always` feature of `tracing`:

```toml
tracing = { version = "0.1", features = ["log-always"] }
```

## Development

If you need to test local fixes to gfx-rs or other dependencies, the simplest way is to add a Cargo patch. For example, when working on DX12 backend on Windows, you can check out the "hal-0.2" branch of gfx-rs repo and add this to the end of "Cargo.toml":

```toml
[patch.crates-io]
gfx-backend-dx12 = { path = "../gfx/src/backend/dx12" }
gfx-hal = { path = "../gfx/src/hal" }
```

If a version needs to be changed, you need to do `cargo update -p gfx-backend-dx12`.

## Known Driver Issues

See [DRIVER_ISSUES.md](driver_issues/DRIVER_ISSUES.md) for a list of
known driver issues.
